before we start the cause proper.
Let's just briefly discuss the style of writing that will be using throughout this course.
So let's go into the Exercises folder on an 02 Getting started.
Let's open the Excel File zero to writing Complex Excel Formless.
We have a typical Excel formula,
it's written,
is one long line,
and it's quite dense and Impenetrable to look at.
It's not mega complicated,
but it does take some deciphering.
First of all,
we can see that there are three functions.
Be look up,
left and such.
And then it's down to our experience to work out the role of each of these three functions
within the formula as a whole.
So with a bit of investigation,
we can deduce that left is acting as one of the arguments or parameters a B Look up with a
bit more investigation.
We can see that search is acting as one of the arguments of left.
Let's compare that with the style of writing that will be using.
So the first thing will be doing is to expand the formula bar,
and there's a little button on the right here,
which does that you click to expand and then click to collapse when you finished.
Once you've expanded the formula bomb,
the final height can be adjusted by going to the bottom of the formula bar and just
dragging Uppal down.
So we now click in Cell C two.
We have the same formula,
but Britain,
in the style that will be using on that style,
is simply to split the formula onto multiple lines.
On the main benefit of doing this is to emphasize the role that each of these three
functions is plain,
so we can immediately see that be look up is the outer function,
which contains everything else.
If we click inside the open in parenthesis after the look up,
Excel displays the arguments.
When we click on the first,
it highlights the entire left function.
We can therefore see that the left function is supplying the first argument of the look up
,
and this is why we have written it in this style.
Left is clearly inside.
We look up and the indentation emphasizes the hierarchy.
We look up is the parent.
On left is the child.
If we click inside the open in parenthesis after the left function,
when we click on the first argument,
we can see that it's simply a cell reference.
But when we played on the second,
we can see that it supplied by the search function again.
We have this parent child relationship we can clearly see.
The left is the parent,
and search is the child.
So that's the logic of split in the formula onto multiple lines and then in dent in the
text to illustrate the hierarchical relationships between the various functions within the
formula.
So for those of you who haven't actually done this,
let's now look at how you spent a formula onto multiple lines.
I'll just press cancel to come out of this cell and then moved back to be,
too,
where we have everything on one line.
The key criterion that I'll be using to decide when to spend a formula into multiple lines
is as follows whenever there's a parent child relationship within the formula.
In other words,
whenever there's an outer function for which one of the arguments is supplied by a nested
function,
and that's clearly the case here.
So the way that will write it is that will split the line after the opening parenthesis
that follows the parent function.
So the parent function is clearly the look up in this case.
So we click after the opening parenthesis and we press old and enter to insert a line break
within the formula bar.
And then we simply use the space bar to invent the text.
So we now have the left function inside.
We look up if the left function had no Children and we write it along one line.
But as we can see,
it has the search function as the second argument.
So for that reason will do the same thing with the left function.
We pressel dente and then use the space bar to invent the arguments.
The first argument is 82 the old enter before the second arguments and then space bar along
to indented.
And of course,
what we trying to do here is to align the arguments.
So after search,
we have a minus one,
and then here we've got the clothes in parenthesis to the left function on.
What I'll be doing is to press old enter here and align the clothes in parenthesis with the
opening premises.
So all of that constitutes the first argument of the look up.
So we now in certain all enter in front of the second argument and the line,
the second argument under the first.
And we do the same with the third argument,
which is the number two.
So Venter Space Bar on the final argument,
both mentor space for,
um and again all tensor on the line,
the clothes in parenthesis off the look up under the opening Prentice's So this is purely
stylistic.
It makes no difference whether we write it on one line or whether we spent it on several
lines when you go to a formula,
either for the first time or after a while and having it written in this style where you
can clearly see the parent child relationship between the nested functions.
Hopefully,
I think you'll agree it does make life easier.
So that's the style that will be using throughout the course selling this center.
And of course,
there's no hard and fast rule as to when you invent and how much you in debt and so forth.
But the general theme is that if you split a complex formula onto multiple lines,
it's easy to see how the form that works and to see the relationship between the various
components of the border